- Fred, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
- So great to be here.
Thank you so much for the invitation.
Nice to be here.
- Yeah.
Yeah, it's lovely to have you.
We're gonna have a lot of fun talking about
this app that you've built using highly powered by AI
and in different ways.
It's both powered by AI, but also largely built with AI.
And I think it's gonna give people an interesting look
into what is possible these days.
- What is possible and the journey
of a middle-aged coder also maybe.
- Yeah, I think actually that's really
an interesting thing to discuss.
And maybe we could just start a little bit
with the introduction about yourself
and then talk a bit about that.
So before we dive into talking about how you use
ChatGPT to largely build this app that is a SaaS product,
service on the internet people pay, subscribe to,
which is the dream of many people.
It's awesome.
With AI, just tell people a bit about yourself
and then we'll, I wanna talk about this journey.
- It's a long story because I'm turning 50 in June, 2024.
So if you listen to this before June, 2024,
I will be 49, after I will be 50.
So yes, that will be-
- You're a spring chicken.
I'm older than you, Fred.
- Oh, you're older than me.
Okay, cool.
I found someone older than me to talk to.
Oh, that's fine.
- You can still write code into your fifties.
Let me tell you, the keyboard still works.
It's amazing.
- And I started when I was 48,
but maybe we get back to this later.
So originally, I mean, my professional journey
started as an interpreter, Russian, English to French.
So I graduated as an interpreter, so in languages.
And then I started being involved in music.
I was head of sponsorship
for a big music festival in Belgium.
I had rock venues, live music venues for a few years.
And then I started being involved in tech
as a head of product,
head of paid acquisition for a few startups.
I had my own startups.
I exited one startup in the FinTech space
in the early 2000s.
I had a circus for two years.
That's quite- - A circus?
- That's quite an interesting story.
Yes, family circus with four big tents,
eight tons of equipment.
So that was quite a story.
- Was this like Cirque du Soleil
or was it with animals or what kind of-
- It was more like, I would say like Cirque du Soleil,
but at a smaller, smaller scale, of course.
- Okay, amazing.
- Four tents and circus artists and actors and musicians.
And that was, yes, an original show, an original story.
I also produced rock bands.
Maybe I can give a shout out to one of the bands
that I love, that I contributed to, the Boxer Rebellion.
Maybe you heard about them, the Boxer Rebellion?
- Yeah.
- It's a British band based here in London,
but with a singer from Nashville, Tennessee,
Nathan Nicholson.
So I was involved in music, in tech,
I mean, in all of those things.
And I think that the project that we're going to talk about
is kind of a good mix between music, tech,
and all my passions.
I was also a radio DJ for you, so that's why.
- Yeah, that's the audio side, right?
That kind of brings you some together
in the music, I suppose, as well.
- Exactly. - Amazing.
You know, listening to you tell the story,
first of all, wow, what a diverse set of experiences.
That must have been really fun.
- It's not a career, that's the problem.
Unemployable.
- But in terms of thinking about products and coding,
I know when I experience different areas,
I always see like, oh, this could be way better,
and that could be way better, and why is that so hard?
Surely we could create some software to fix these things.
You must have had a lot of ideas
about programs you would like to see
and stuff you'd like to work on.
- Yes, yes.
And multiple times, the solution for me
was to hire people to do it.
So I had my own startups in the past,
and I always had a team of, let's say,
two to five developers working for me
when we were doing that.
So I kind of understood all the structure,
the architecture of the apps.
But I'd never really coded myself,
so I was always relying on other people.
The difference today is that I spent
most of my days coding, which is quite different.
- Yeah.
Yeah, and you said you started coding when you were 48.
- Yes.
- Roughly almost two years ago.
- Yes. - That's awesome.
You know, I do hear from a lot of people,
or see comments like, oh, I think I'm too old to learn this,
or, oh, you have to have done this
when you were a kid, or maybe gotten a degree in college,
otherwise you're doomed.
You know, you surely have an alternative viewpoint on that,
given your success.
- Actually, I thought it would be like that also for me,
because I would say I'm quite a perfectionist.
So if I learn something, I want to achieve something
with what I learn.
And the problem, the issue with code for me
for a long time had been that, okay,
I could go through the basic tutorials,
the first lessons, you know, watching some videos,
or reading some tutorials,
but it was difficult for me
to really achieve something meaningful,
something that I could really share
that could become a product,
because you always end up doing the same little,
you know, exercises and little tutorials,
and that doesn't end up anywhere.
So-
- You learned how to do a loop,
but then that doesn't really help you
get any closer to an app, right?
- Yeah, you learn how to do a little to-do list,
or a little calculator, or, you know, something very simple,
nothing that would be worth sharing as a product,
and especially as a paid product.
So I always thought, okay, if I want to build a SaaS,
the only solution for me is to rely on a freelancer,
or on an agency, or on a team of people.
That's how I was doing it until I-
- That's a big risk, and it's,
that's a big risk, and it's also not that easy
to hire a team to build your product,
when you're still trying to figure out what a product is,
and all these things, right?
- Yes, and I mean, even if you hire non-expensive developers,
it has still a cost, and if you want to,
you know, just, if you don't want to take too much risk,
if you want to test your product,
to see if you have product market fits,
I mean, you don't want to spend 5,000, 10,000,
15,000 on a product.
So, yeah, it's difficult, and the alternative
that people are mostly, most of the time advocating
these days, it's no code.
So it's, you know, building stuff with a, let's say,
bubble, which is pretty popular, or-
- Got Retool, they've been a sponsor of the show before.
- Retool, obviously, that's pretty nice,
mostly for internal apps.
And also, you can just connect stuff through Zapier,
through Make, formerly IntegraMatte.
So you can achieve something,
but you don't have the control on the UI,
you don't really have the control exactly
on what's happening behind the scenes,
and you don't have the flexibility that you have
if you really code yourself.
So if you can really get your hands dirty
and code on your own.
So I was also, I used also to be a strong advocate
of no code, so I was using,
I'm still using,
firstly Zapier, and then later on Make.
But once I discovered Python in August, September 2022,
then everything changed for me,
because then I could really start doing my own stuff.
And I started with backend stuff,
with backend scripts for, let's say,
to create competitive intelligence scripts,
things like that.
And I slowly moved into frontend,
but first for a few months,
it was mostly local scripts on my computer.
- Yeah, that's really interesting.
The low code, no code stuff is super powerful.
And I think it does make it possible
for people to build apps.
I have a friend who built a platform
a little bit on top of something
that's kind of a low code thing,
and what they're doing is really impressive.
And they've got lots of customers,
and it's going really well.
It's a vibrant business,
but it's always your beholden
to whatever that platform does.
If the platform has downtime, you have downtime.
If they're changing their feature set
in a way that doesn't quite line up
with what you're trying to do,
well, that's too bad,
because they've changed their direction or whatever.
And it's really powerful,
but it's also a little bit of a risk, right?
To be built on top of that.
- A risk, yes, but for me, it was even more,
I would say the arbitrage was even more about flexibility.
So when you code something on your own
with Python, JavaScript, as I'm doing now,
it's faster in many cases than trying to figure out
how to connect, let's say, Airtable with something else.
Then you've got to think about
how the data is structured in Airtable,
how the data has to be structured on the other side,
and then how to connect them together.
Sometimes it's easier if you just have a SQLite database
or MySQL database,
and then if you do your own stuff on your own
without trying to connect existing SaaS together.
So it was more about flexibility for me,
the main reason why I switched almost completely
from no-code to coding.
- That's really interesting.
I guess one more that would be worth considering is price.
Some of these low-code, no-code platforms
are really powerful, but when you start to look at price
for a decent number of users using your app,
a lot of them are built for internal use cases
and are not really built for having a bunch
of multi-tenant style users and so on,
but also they can just get real expensive real quick.
- Yes, because they are based usually on the amount
of transactions or scenarios or zaps that can run.
So if you want to transfer one piece of data
from one software to another one, it's one transaction.
So if you have, let's say, 10,000 transactions per month
for a certain price,
then yeah, you can run out of transactions pretty quickly.
- Yeah.
- It's very quickly, you end up paying 25, 30, $40
for a pretty low amount of transactions,
of API codes basically between the difference.
- Yeah, and if you glue them together,
in one tool connects to another, which connects to another,
then you've got to pay for kind of the traffic
and the activity in all three.
It's not just like, well, I'm talking to my database.
I'm now talking to some other service
that's got something going on.
- Yes, yes, yes.
And the fact is also that there are a few tools
that enable you to create a UI user interface
for your product, but you're limited
to the building blocks usually that they offer,
even if you can tweak them with some code.
And it's a bit the same, I would say,
it's a bit also the same issue that I've experienced
on WordPress, let's say.
The problem is that if you use something like Bubble
and you want to build something with it,
you bring to your app or the mothership,
the core of the big app, let's say, of Bubble as a whole,
when you want to build something on top
of a platform like that.
So it's a lot of things that you don't really need
for your specific apps, but that have to be there
because the old engine has to run.
- Yeah, that's a good point.
- Usually what you also experience with WordPress,
for instance, when you have a site on WordPress,
maybe sometimes, or even most of the time,
you don't need that big engine.
You could work with a static website
with a few HTML, CSS, JavaScript pages.
That would be much lighter.
That would be less code to activate
to have your website up and running.
So yeah, it's also, in terms of performance,
if you can code your own stuff,
I think it's also a good reason to choose
coding versus no code, if you can do it.
- Totally agree.
- So price, performance, control, all those things.
That said, you do have to understand more about the world.
All right, like one thing we were coordinating around
is just like understanding web app architecture.
I don't know how you feel about it,
but I feel like a lot of the guidance that is out there
is too intense.
There's too many moving parts, right?
Like everyone thinks you need to have
some kind of background worker service like Celery,
and you need a caching layer,
and you need this, and you need that.
And it just starts to be like,
whoa, this is like running Netflix.
You know what I mean?
Whereas a lot of times what you need is a backend,
a front end, and some kind of data store, and that's it.
And that data store, you mentioned it before,
the data store can be, in the early days,
it could be SQLite, which doesn't require another server
or another thing to maintain and connect and secure.
And it can just be a file that you back up.
- Yeah, exactly.
- While you're proving out the idea, right?
So maybe, you're coming from a place
where you weren't a DevOps expert.
How'd this transition go for you?
- So when I started developing an app
for some reason, I came across Flask
as a solution for Python.
So I started developing the app on Flask.
What I like about Flask is that if you compare it,
let's say you use Flask,
and then for the pages, you use HTML, CSS,
and Vanilla JavaScript.
What I like is that you can deploy an app
which comes from a single folder,
and you've got everything there, your main Flask file,
and then all the, let's say the sub files in Python
with all the business logic that you can isolate
in one file or another.
But it's one project, and then you deploy the project
to GitHub, and then let's say you connect GitHub to Railway.
I'm using Railway for my deployment.
So you connect GitHub to Railway,
and then once you update your code in PyCharm
or in Visual Studio,
then you have the automatic deployment to Railway.
But it's one project.
Whereas if you want to decouple completely
the backend from the frontend,
let's say you work with something like Next.js, for instance,
and then you want to have a backend in something else,
then you've got to have multiple instances
and connect them together.
It becomes more complicated.
But if you want to create something simple,
you can keep it simple with one single Flask web app.
And that's what I've been doing so far.
Most of the jingle maker that I built,
that I've been building since September 23,
is a Flask web app.
So it's one project, one big project,
but it's one project.
And it's interesting that you mentioned Sillery
a few moments ago,
because I'm about to ship a new app,
which is coming in the next two weeks or three weeks, I think.
And that's the first time after, yeah,
almost 18 months of development
that I've considered using something like that
because I needed it for performance reasons to process.
- Something you want to start off in the background
and get back and just let it be done later, right?
- Yeah.
And it was not that easy.
We had a discussion with someone who is amazing
on the Discord of Railway two, three days ago.
Because, I mean,
if you're deploying things on Railway,
you would usually use,
that's what they advise you to do as on Heroku,
a proc file, and the proc file,
you've got the start commands
that will start your project.
But on Heroku, which is a competitor of Railway,
you can start both the web app
and the worker in the same file.
But you can't do that on Railway.
You've got theoretically two different projects,
which kind of defeats the purpose.
- You've got to deploy them both, right?
But then you get some more coordination.
- Yes, yeah.
But fortunately, and there is a discussion
on the Discord between me and one of the guys there,
they had a way to create a custom JSON for me,
which managed to start both the web app
and the worker in the same deployment.
But I had to fight, to be honest with you,
for like four or five hours to find a solution.
- Yeah.
- Sometimes the problem,
and that's the issue that I've seen a lot,
is that traditional developers,
like professional developers, not people like me,
not random guys like me,
usually they assume that the people
that they're supposed to explain things to
know much more than what they do.
And so they just write a few instructions,
like cryptic instructions that nobody really understands.
And they would assume
that everyone reading those instructions
would understand what they have to do
to, let's say, use this worker service, for instance.
- Yeah.
- But that's not the case.
- I totally agree.
I totally agree.
It's kind of the curse of knowledge.
Like once you know all of these things,
it's really hard to remember, "Oh yeah."
So then you just, "Oh, just run that in Docker."
And then link it and set up a network over there.
You're like, "Wait a minute.
I don't know how to do that.
I'm just trying to run my Python app."
You're bringing a whole new thing in
that you think makes it sound easy.
And it makes it sound real hard to me.
- Yeah.
- I totally disagree.
- There are so many moving pieces.
So many moving pieces.
When you start coding,
I mean, obviously you know that
because you've been in this game for much longer than me.
But once you start coding,
there are so many little things
that you have to know to make this thing work.
So it starts with how to just configure GitHub
and connect it to your-
- How do you use Git?
- Yeah, I just-
- If you have a Git conflict,
you might be like, "Well, this is done.
I can't do anything else anymore.
It's broken."
- Yeah.
- I mean, it's really overwhelming when you're new, right?
- There's a lot.
And that's where AI today helps you.
Because in most cases,
if you know how to talk with the AI,
you will get answers that are much easier to understand
than what you would have on Stack Overflow, for instance.
- Yes.
I agree.
It's very interesting how helpful it is.
I think it's a good time to about jump into that.
But before we do,
tell people about Railway a bit.
How does this work?
I haven't used Railways before.
- So it's a platform where you can deploy your apps,
basically.
It connects to your GitHub account.
And it's not only,
I mean, you have on Railway,
not only a possibility to deploy your Flask app
or other types of apps also,
but they also offer all the database aspect.
So you can spin a Redis database,
you can have a MySQL database.
I think they also have Mongo.
I mean, they have most of the formats that you can expect.
And the great thing is that everything is
on the same platform.
Let's say that I've got another project
I'm involved with a developer,
with a real developer,
hi to Alex, if he listens to this podcast,
a professional developer.
And for that project, for instance,
we have an app on Heroku.
We have a database on MongoDB Atlas.
And we have the files,
so uploaded to S3, to Amazon S3 for the file storage.
On Railway, you can, at least it's what I do,
you can have at the same time,
the deployment of the app.
So which replaces Heroku
and you can have the database also together.
And the cool thing is that they are,
I would say even physically at the same location.
So in terms of performance, it's pretty easy to handle.
And it's very user-friendly.
I mean, very, very easy to use.
From what I saw, even easier to understand
than Heroku.
And I tried also some things like Versal
or I use for some project also,
but that's more for static website, Netlify.
But for this type-
- Netlify is fantastic for static, but yeah.
- For static, Netlify is just amazing.
And just the one where you can just drag and drop a project,
for instance, for a static website, so easy.
But for a more multi-tenant dynamic web app
like the Jingle Maker, Railway was really cool.
- Yeah.
- And as you can see from the presentation,
it's very user-friendly.
- Yeah, it definitely is.
And the pricing is actually really decent.
They have a free trial and then $5 a month,
but that gives you eight gigs of RAM
and eight CPUs per service.
That is really good.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I started it on the OBI plan.
And I think that today, just to give you an idea,
with roughly 500 users coming to the app per day
and a lot of them using the product,
I pay for that roughly $15 a month
for both the app deployment and the database,
which is in MySQL for the Jingle Maker.
- That's pretty impressive.
Okay, good one to know about.
This is cool.
- Yeah, it's nice.
- And they have good Python support, I'm assuming.
- Sorry?
- They have good Python support?
- Yes, yes, very good.
And they have, as I said, like most people do today,
a Discord server, which is monitored also by volunteers.
And there was a guy the other day,
I didn't even know he was not part
of the official team of Railway,
and it really helped me.
He wrote some code for me to make this thing work
with Celery.
So it was really, really amazing.
And it was on a Sunday in the evening.
So really nice.
- Amazing, yeah, that's amazing.
One thing I just want to give a shout out to
that I came across recently that's interesting
is Coolify.
- Coolify.
- Which is, it's self-hosted Heroku Netlify
Vercel alternative.
You just get pushed to it.
I don't know if it's better than this though,
because you got to have a decent server to run it on,
you got to run the Docker stuff and whatnot to sort of do it.
But yeah, anyway, speaking of--
- And you've got to manage also,
because the other day, I think it was 10 days ago,
there was a DDoS attack, I think,
against Railway for the European part of their network.
But they were very quick at jumping on it
and managing all of that,
and doing all the mitigation against it.
If you run your own service,
then you've got to take care of all of that.
- Yeah, exactly, yeah.
- Your own security and all of that, so yeah.
- There's benefits, but there's also drawbacks there.
All right, let's talk about,
I think the right way to start talking about
this, how you're using AI and the journey you went through.
I mean, we've talked a lot about foundations already,
but let's talk about your app.
You've mentioned a couple of times, AI Jingle Maker.
- Yes.
- So this is, tell people what it does.
- So it's a web app that you can find on AIJingleMaker.com.
And if you enter the app,
you can create your own sweepers, radio jingles,
podcast intros, audio promos,
as if you were playing with Lego bricks, I would say.
It's not the usual
dough experience.
Like if you, I mean, if you'll be using things
like GarageBand or FL Studio or Pro Tools
to edit your audio,
you can imagine those waves that you've got to move around
to create your jingles or your sweepers.
If you're using, for instance,
the open source Audacity software also on your computer,
you can do that.
But still, you've got to know how to move these things
around and how to play with the volume,
the fade in, the fade out, the reverb,
the chorus, the flanger, I mean, all the effects.
And I mean, it's not that easy for many people.
And so I thought that I could build something
that made it as easy as pressing on a few buttons.
So that's the idea of the product.
So the way you use it,
when you enter the product,
you've got four different parts.
You've got the intro, the background, the outro,
and the voiceover, which is on top of the background.
And the voiceover, now you've got three different options.
You've got the possibility to record your own voice.
So I rebuilt a voice recorder,
an online voice recorder where you can quickly record
your voice, add a few effects,
and then boom, use that as your voiceover.
You can also upload an existing recording
that you have on your computer.
So if you've got something that you recorded
with FL Studio or something else,
you can upload it and use it as a voiceover.
Or you can use AI.
So I'm connected to a bunch of text-to-speech API.
So I didn't develop the models myself.
I'm not someone smart enough to develop
a foundational model, but I'm connected to the APIs.
And you can pick one of the voices.
You can then write your text, generate the voiceover.
And once you have the voiceover, you just select it.
And when you have the voiceover,
you choose a background behind it.
So let's say groovy music, house music, rock music,
romantic music, whatever.
You've got some pre-made sounds in the app.
You choose an intro, an outro,
and then you press on Generate Jingle.
And in five seconds, you've got a jingle.
That's basically the idea.
- Yeah, let's see if this will come through in the recording.
I'll see.
Here, tell me if you hear this, Fred.
- Oh, I don't hear it.
That's always the problem.
That's always the problem with technology
and especially with screen sharing,
is that sometimes the tabs don't work.
But you've got to imagine the song.
But it was trying to-
- You know what?
I'll tell you what, Fred.
I'm gonna go back and I'm gonna put in,
I'll put in the jingle so people know
exactly what this sounds.
I'll put it in right now.
And we can listen to it.
And then people will know exactly
what we're talking about here.
So, you know, it's really cool.
And it's something that I've seen people hire
voiceover actors on like Fiverr and stuff like that.
They'll maybe pay 30 bucks to have somebody
do a couple of trials and throw some music on top of,
or something like that, right?
- And I'm a voiceover artist on Fiverr.
I'm doing that also.
- Okay.
So you're like, let me see if I can get,
let me see if I can automate my job away.
- Yeah.
I mean, it was not really the idea of automating
completing the job.
It was more like the, you know,
how can you create something that's self-service
and that can meet the needs of people, as you said,
who don't want to spend 50 bucks or 100 bucks
for something.
But want to have an easy way to create basic sweepers,
jingles, or some other things.
And the first target was mostly indie radio stations
or small podcasts.
But then I saw many brands coming.
Like, I wouldn't say like, not the big brands,
but small brands coming like apparel brands or coffee shops.
Or I had the other day a bar in Ibiza signing up
and paying for credits to generate a promo
for the bar in Ibiza.
So yeah, it's not only radio stations and podcasts.
It's also anyone who wants to create a promo
for their business.
So that's also one of the services.
And when I started, it was only short sweepers,
jingles, radio station.
I did stuff like that.
But then I added something which is called the promo maker,
which you have in the jingle maker,
where you can create something
which is up to 30 seconds long.
So more like a radio ad.
So that's another.
And there you can also use AI.
It's connected to open AI, to be honest,
but you can also use AI to generate the text of your promo.
So just put the name of your business,
what you're selling, your service, your product.
- Amazing.
- Then it will suggest the text.
Then you choose the voice.
You generate the AI voice,
and then you add the sounds, and then it's finished.
So let's say in 20 seconds, you've got a node you add.
So that's the promise for the promo maker.
- It's a cool app, and it's really impressive
to look at this and think that you built this
with less than a year of Python,
or really any coding experience, right?
Roughly that amount?
- To put things really in perspective
so that people know what they can expect
if they start their coding journey.
So I started coding in Python in September, October 2022.
For a few months, as I said,
I was mostly coding scripts on my computer
that helped me in my daily business,
because I didn't tell you in the beginning,
but most of my activity, it's online marketing.
It's working for startups and bigger companies also.
So I need scripts for competitive intelligence,
for SEO, or for even content production,
this type of thing.
So I created a lot of scripts locally on my computer
before considering the front end part.
Then that's when I discovered Flask.
That was just before the summer of 2023.
And yes, the first version of the Jingle Maker
that I launched, it was just on the home page.
You couldn't basically, you couldn't tweak anything.
There were just four different jingles
and just put the name of your radio station.
You press on generate and it generated one thing,
the same for everyone.
And it started getting some traction
between May 2023 and August.
And then I said, okay,
I'm gonna really dive into this project
and develop something more sophisticated.
And I started working on that on a Monday in September.
It was released on the Friday.
- Awesome. - The V2.
So-
- And I gotta tell you, your website now looks really nice.
You've done a lot of good design work on it as well
in the last couple of months.
- Yeah, it has evolved because maybe you saw it
for the first time when we decided to do this podcast.
It was a white page.
The logo was the same, but it was different.
Originally, it was only in material design.
So I was using material design via the CDN from Google.
But then I wanted to use Tailwind.
And so the new version that you see is using Tailwind.
So people might recognize the Tailwind vibe.
And I worked quite a lot on this thing that,
okay, we said it's audio, so people don't see it.
But if you go on the website, you would see it.
There is this rotating list of things
that you can create with the product.
It was inspired by some code that I found,
but I had to retweak it for,
make it responsive and all of that.
So yeah, that's...
And you know, also a big shout out to my son,
who is 18 and was learning Python a lot.
He coded a few things recently.
He's coding something to play darts at the moment,
like to calculate the scores in darts.
And two months ago, he said to me that,
"Your site is nice, but it looks ugly.
So could you make something that looks better?"
I said, "Yeah, yeah."
But you know, I kind of like it.
I said, "No, no, no, no, no, no that.
It's not the way it should be.
So do something better.
I know you can do it."
So that's why also we've got something
which looks better today, thanks to my son, Maxim.
- Wow, it's a huge improvement from where it started.
So nice work on that.
- Yeah.
- All right, let's talk about some of the techniques
that you used here to...
First of all, what LLM did you use to go on this journey?
- So when I started,
I wasn't even aware of GitHub Copilot.
So I started only with ChatGPT.
So I was an early premium user of ChatGPT.
So I started paying the 20 bucks very early for GPT+.
So yeah, so I started using ChatGPT.
So basically switching between the ChatGPT UI
and the IDE, I started using PyCharm.
So that's the first one I used.
So I was creating some code in ChatGPT
and then jumping to PyCharm, test the code.
And then if there was a bug, coming back to ChatGPT.
So this back and forth journey.
And then I subscribed to--
- You asked it at the beginning.
How do I make a Flask app?
What did you ask it in the beginning?
Like, how do I make a Flask app?
How do I make a Flask app that does audio?
Like, what did you--
- Yeah, that's a very good question.
So I knew that I wanted to use Flask.
So the first thing that you would ask
is to ask ChatGPT for a boilerplate of a Flask web app.
And it will give you pretty quickly
the basic building blocks.
I don't know if it would give you straight away
the architecture with a template
inside of the template folder, but no, it gives you--
- Hello world as a string.
- Yeah, hello world on the page.
But then if you know that you need HTML,
then you will ask ChatGPT to tweak it
to render index.html from the template folder.
And there you see, there it starts.
Yeah, and it gives you some boilerplate for the HTML
that you put in the templates folder.
And then you learn that you need,
ideally, to have some JavaScript in a JavaScript file
and that you need some CSS in a CSS file
and that those two files will be in the static folder
of a Flask web app.
So now I've got, let's say my routine,
I've got all of that ready.
And if I start a new app, I don't even need,
obviously, a ChatGPT.
I just create my structure.
I put index.html, script.js, styles.css.
But then what you can also ask ChatGPT to do, for instance,
is if you've got your HTML page,
you can say, "Restyle this HTML page
"with Tailwind CSS using the CDN," for instance,
and it will give you a full restyling.
And then you can ask it,
"Okay, I want on this page four buttons,
"and those four buttons should do X, Y, Z."
And then you start moving into the JavaScript part of it
for the interactions on the page.
The interesting thing maybe,
which would explain also why I haven't really started
using Next.js or Vue or things like that,
is that by default, for some reason,
you've got to ask OpenAI why,
maybe because of some legacy importance
of Vania JavaScript.
But if you ask ChatGPT to start creating some interactions
on an HTML page, it won't just tell you,
"Okay, these days people use React or Next.js
"or something like that,
"so maybe you should consider that."
It will go deep into Vania JavaScript.
And after developing the Jingle Maker for a few months,
I showed it to my friend Alex,
who is this developer I was talking about earlier,
who has graduated, I would say,
from Vania JavaScript to React.
And he looked at my code and said,
"Man, that's crazy.
"It's all Vania JavaScript.
"There's not a single line of React.
"So everything in your app,
"it's lines and lines and lines of JavaScript."
And he said--
- That's a benefit and a drawback.
- Yeah, but he said that he would not even be able
to write it this way from scratch today.
That's not something that he would really consider doing
because it's more verbose,
there's more stuff to write
to achieve what you want to achieve.
But the thing is that with chatGPT,
or today with a GitHub copilot embedded in the IDE,
even if it's longer, that's not a problem
because you don't write a single line of code.
I mean, I think it's important to point that out,
is that in the Jingle Maker,
there is not one single line of code that I wrote, not one.
- That's insane.
- There's not one, not a single line of code that I typed
from the first curly bracket to the last curly bracket.
Nothing, everything is written like that.
Yesterday, for instance, I was working
on something completely different now
for a friend who is also a client
who are working on a Gmail add-on.
So I don't know if you're familiar with that,
but you're using Apps Script from Google
and then create a manifest and blah, blah.
And I didn't know anything about Gmail add-ons
until yesterday in the morning.
And after now five hours of work,
we've got a fully working product in Gmail.
- That's amazing.
- Yeah, that's great, that's great, 2024.
And it's only the beginning,
because I really see that evolving super fast.
I think that now the most important thing
is to be able to talk to the machine,
to explain the structure,
the architecture of what you expect,
and to be clear in your head about how the code
has to be developed for the pages to interact,
for the elements to interact together.
And if it's clear in your head,
and if you can explain it clearly to your computer,
to the LLM, it's just like magic.
- It is like magic.
Yeah, yeah, it's pretty wild.
So you can see on the side here,
I have these really weird recent chats I had,
like a skilled baker Q&A
and survive a plane crash in the wilderness.
And so these things are actually related.
And what I was trying to do
was I was trying to understand how much prompt engineering
and sort of setting the stage for the questions matters.
So like this one, I said, you are a very skilled baker.
You have run a successful restaurant
in the city for five years.
Now I will ask you questions,
as opposed to this one,
you are a very skilled outdoorsman,
and you've been on multiple reality shows.
Now I'll ask you some questions.
And they were both the same question.
If I'm in a plane crash and I need to survive,
I wanted to see how much the baker would focus on food
and stuff versus the survivalist on others.
And I feel like that's a real clear way to understand
this kind of stuff in just a real general way.
But I think there must be a code aspect of that as well.
Like rather than just tell me how to do this in Python,
like you have written this app in Python,
or you're an expert on FastAPI.
Now I want to talk to you.
You may get different results,
maybe better, maybe worse, I don't know.
But did you try any of this techniques
or was it just straight down the middle?
Tell me how to do this with tail end.
- To be fair with you,
because I was a total newbie in the beginning,
I was making sure to ask the DI to explain to me
almost as if I were five year old.
Because I could have told the AI,
you're an expert Python developer,
and then just give me the code.
But then I don't have all the explanations
because then it behaves like an expert Python developer.
And there are many shortcuts that it will take
and not really give you all the details,
documenting all the code.
So I'm still,
yeah, more like in a,
explain to me in layman's terms,
you know, how to do this.
Because then also I understand the code.
So it's easier for me to debug it.
I usually take the analogy that,
and when you said that sometimes you think
it might be too late to learn to code
or to learn to do something.
Let's say that you want to learn to play music,
to play the piano.
At a certain age, it becomes very difficult
because you don't have the reflex, the muscles,
you know, agility that you can have
when you are a young kid to learn how to play the piano.
But still, I mean, you could understand
what's on the score written on the page from the music.
So in coding for me, it's kind of the same.
I would, to be honest with you,
I would not be able to write most of the code
that is in my app myself, but I can read the score
and I can see the connections
between the different building blocks in the code.
So I can understand if there's a problem,
you know, a syntax issue,
because there's some, you know,
closing brackets that are not properly closed.
I can see it.
I can, but I wouldn't be able to write the code properly
in the first place myself.
And you could argue it's a problem,
but I say, you know, for me,
the output is what matters.
It's the final product, which is what matters.
So as long as I understand what's on the screen,
for me, it's okay.
- Yeah, well, let's loop it back
to the original way we started this.
One way you could do this is you could hire people
to build this for you, and then they give you the code
and you're in the same position.
Like here's a huge pile of code
and you probably understand it.
I'm sure you understand it less well
than if you went through step by step.
I'm 100% sure.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, I was in that position a few times
where I was involved in some projects
and I was not involved in the actual coding of the project.
And then I inherited the project.
I mean, I had the code base, but I could,
I mean, I could just put it on a shelf
because I wouldn't be able to do anything with that.
Whereas now I understand every single section
of what's written in the app.
So at the moment I'm repurposing some of the payment logic
because I will switch from Stripe to Paddle
in the Agile Maker.
And yeah, so I've got to rebuild the payment models.
I've got to rebuild the Flask routes
for the API endpoints,
for the payment confirmations and all of that.
So I know where they are and I know what they do.
So I know how to tweak them
and I can highlight exactly what I want.
And then now I'm using,
I would say 75% of the time
I'm using GitHub Copilot straight in the IDE directly
because it's in context then.
You highlight the code and you,
and then if the suggestion is nice,
you just insert it to replace the code.
So that's, so yeah, once you've got something
that you understand, it goes faster and faster.
So yeah.
- Yeah, and you're still early in this project, right?
This is- - Yeah, super early.
- Like six months or something.
But I would imagine, yes, I imagine as you do more of this,
you might not choose to write a lot of code,
but I bet you'll start to be able to write code,
kind of like language immersion.
You know, if you moved to Brazil,
you would start to learn Portuguese.
- Yes. - Eventually,
just 'cause you're in that environment so much, you know?
- But sometimes really, you know, with the suggestions,
it's, you wouldn't see why you would write the code.
For instance, I had, earlier today,
I was creating a scraper to check the technology
used by different websites by looking in the source code
for, let's say, WP for WordPress,
Odoo for Odoo, Squarespace, Weebly,
you know, this kind of thing.
So we just wrote together with the AI the first part,
and then we had to replicate the code
in beautiful soup for the scraper,
for each of them.
There's absolutely no reason
why I would write each iteration.
And once you write two of them,
then you, with Copilot,
you just go with your tab to the next section,
and it will understand that what you expect,
because you've got like three or four different technologies
that you want to track in your code
that you declared before,
they will have to write a block of six lines.
Boom, that's the block of six lines.
There's no reason in the world
why I would write those six lines, you know?
- Yeah, amazing.
- Yeah, that's great.
- One more prompt in engineering thing,
you talked about it, and I think it is a problem.
So I asked basically, what's the boilerplate?
And it said, boom, here's the boilerplate for Flask
in ChatGPT.
Then I said, well, how do I use a template?
And it said, boom, here's the two pieces of code.
You said sometimes this can be really challenging.
You said one of the techniques used
was to explain to me like a five-year-old.
Another thing that works really well is I just said,
tell me this again, let's think step by step.
And it gave me a 10-step process.
Start one, install Flask, create a project directory,
create the project script, import Flask.
And it was really much more like,
this is what each step you need to do.
And things like that are really neat.
- When you really start learning,
it's nice to do it step by step.
Because some people, they don't understand,
and that's quite normal.
I would say that you've got to install those libraries
before using them.
Simple things like that.
So in the beginning, it's nice to go step by step.
- Yeah, it's really powerful.
And it's something people can check out.
There's a cool video, that's your channel, this one.
That's the one I was looking for.
Called "Prompt Engineering 101" by Patrick LeVere.
And yeah, it's like a 14-minute video, it talks through,
has a bunch of advice from places like Anthropic and others.
And like, here is how you go and some things you can try.
Yeah.
- And I would also add that it's also evolving.
Thanks also to the longer context windows
that we have today in DLLM.
Because when I started doing that in 2022,
the context window was maximum 4,000 tokens
or something like that.
So you had to really go by short section.
And it was very difficult to debug long pieces of code,
long sections of code.
Now the token window is 128,000 on OpenAI,
and it's even longer on Cloud or other LLMs.
And yeah, so today it's possible to basically throw
at some point 750 lines of code in,
or 1,000 lines of code in DLLM,
and get some refactoring, debugging.
So that's also really amazing.
When you need, let's say, you know that you created
something cool in one app, some business logic,
something interesting, but you know that you want
to just repurpose it in a small way,
like make little tweaks.
You just throw all the code into DLLM,
and you just explain the little changes that you want,
and it will give you the adapted code,
fully functional in one go, one shot,
which is also impressive.
- That is super impressive.
So it sounds like you use Google Copilot a lot.
Have you looked at GPT Engineer?
- Nope, nope.
- So I haven't really either, but it basically,
it's supposed to be kind of a iterative, let's see.
Kind of an iterative thing that goes,
it will generate all the multiple files for you,
and then try to understand how all those pieces
fit together and work.
- More like an agent logic.
- Yeah, exactly, exactly.
- No, I started working with the GPTs from OpenAI,
from chatGPT.
I created a few of them.
There's a funny one, for instance,
I'm working for an accounting firm for some marketing,
and the boss of the company sent me a document
of 350 pages explaining the accounting module on Odo,
which is an ERP system, two weeks ago.
And he said, "Oh, you should read that
"to be able to understand it and answer questions
"about the module."
And I just threw it into chatGPT,
uploaded the PDF, and I created a custom GPT.
So now I can ask the custom GPT questions
about the accounting module.
- Oh, that's insane.
That's insane.
- Instead of reading the,
and also another nice use case that I have,
it's nothing about coding, but sometimes you just,
you're just on YouTube and someone tells you,
this is the big, the five big important things
you have to know in 2024,
which would change your life forever.
So I'm tempted.
Maybe I will watch this video because it might be interesting
but I'm gonna say, no, it's probably not that interesting.
It's probably a lot of fluff.
So now usually what I do is that I've got a website called,
I don't remember the name, sorry,
but one of the websites where you can get the transcript
of a video.
So I go get the transcript, throw it into chatGPT
and then I ask, what are the five important things
I should know that would change my life forever in 24?
And then I've got them in five seconds.
I don't want to, I don't need to watch a 35 minutes video.
So that's-
- And then maybe you decide to watch it later,
but at least now you can filter it, right?
Yeah, awesome.
What an interesting story, Fred.
So let's, I think maybe we should wrap it up,
but people can check out AIjinglemaker.com.
I'll put that in the show notes.
There's two other things from you that are noteworthy.
One is you have your AI Coding Club newsletter.
You wanna tell people about that?
- Yeah, that's a newsletter I started,
which is connected to some of the videos I posted on YouTube
where I would explain to people how to use AI
for coding purposes.
I will start sending the newsletters soon, actually.
I started registering people,
but I haven't sent the first edition yet,
but I will start very soon.
And I've got also a new app, as I said,
coming up probably within two weeks.
It will be called the AI Showmaker.
So it's a way to create a podcast
or a radio show with building blocks.
So it's the same concept as the Jinglemaker,
but for longer form.
- That sounds really interesting.
- Yeah.
- All right, cool.
And by the way, I've been thinking a lot
about email and newsletters and stuff.
I was doing a bunch with MailChimp for many, many years,
and it's just got to be super, super expensive,
and I got frustrated with them.
So I did a bunch of research on different platforms,
looked at buttondown.email,
and I actually chose ListMonk,
which is self-hosted and Docker-style thing.
But one of the ones that I came across at the end
is Beehive, which looks pretty interesting.
Are you happy with Beehive?
- Yes, very nice.
And it's more competing with Substack, I would say.
I think it was co-created by one of the guys
who co-founded Morning Brew, the newsletter Morning Brew.
So he knows what he's talking about.
And it's also really well-coded, really well-executed.
It's a pleasure to use.
And you can use it for free for up to 2,500 subscribers.
Yeah, that's it.
- The pricing is way, way better
than things like MailChimp and stuff.
- Yeah, and it's cheaper, also cheaper than Substack.
So I don't know which cut they take from the subscription,
if you run a premium newsletter,
but it's much cheaper than Substack.
I think Substack takes 10% from like Patreon
and other platform like that.
- Nice.
All right, and then one other thing is your,
call me Fred.
- Yeah, your YouTube channel, yeah.
I've got some videos there.
Some of the videos are explaining how to use
the Jingle Maker, the recent ones,
but also some of them are about this journey
of how to code with AI.
There are some concrete examples also,
like I coded recently a Chrome extension,
a bookmarking Chrome extension, all the code.
The explanations is on YouTube and the code on GitHub.
So I've got different projects like that.
And yeah, I'm usually documenting what I do on YouTube.
- Yeah, nice that people can check that out.
All right, well, I think that about does it
for the time that we got together,
but thanks for coming on and sharing your story.
I think it'll inspire a lot of folks.
- Thank you.
I hope that everything was clear,
that I wasn't cursed to be too cryptic
like the developer that I was talking about,
but yeah, so it's really exciting.
It's rejuvenating, as you could say.
- It's opening up a whole world of possibilities, right?
- Yeah, I mean, I wish I would have started earlier,
to be honest, because when I see my son, he's 18,
and what he already does today with Python,
that's quite amazing.
So when you're 18, imagine where you will be
when you will be 48 or 49.
It will be like really good.
So yeah, that's the beauty.
That's the beauty of it.
So don't wait too long if you're young,
if you're listening to the podcast,
start today or yesterday, even.
- Yeah, awesome.
Well, totally agree.
Thanks so much for being here and see you later.
- Thank you so much.
Bye-bye.